
---
layout: post
title: The Ego, Superficiality, and Other Modern Quandaries
---

*What is Growth?*

When I speak of growth, I am referring to all areas of one's personal development; namely the mind and body.
This is a well familiar yet poorly understood topic in Western society. At the most superficial level, most people 
feel that they should be striving towards improvement and that life should, in some way, progress as one matures. We 
stress these points by paying a great deal of attention to the individual; their needs, wants, ambitions, struggles, etc. 
The focus at the individual level has been pointed out by some to be regarded as a barrier in itself, but in reality it 
the focus on one's passions which truly stand in the way of their own growth. Furthermore, focus on improvement of the self
neet not evoke the ego to obtain a favorable outcome. 

We say that it is up to the individual to invent their own truth, rather than stating that there is only truth and one must
find their own way to that point. It is a subtle yet consequential distinction. When one seeks truth, he is objective and 
detached. They will see themselves, and the world as it truly is; it is from this starting point that the most effective 
developments to the individual can be made. The mind-body general wellbeing is a good example to demonstrate the consequences
of the two differing mindsets. If I say to myself 'I do not need to go to the gym, I am not obese nor have immediate health
risks' I have already closed my mind to the possibilites. If I instead observe my own thoughts and actions, I might conclude
that while I am above average in terms of physical condition, this is an abysmal standard to compare oneself to. Furthermore, 
the comparison itself is not helpful in the least. Let us first turn to health and exercise, as it most vividly demonstrates
our potential and some fallacies inhibiting us. 

*Body Shaming and other Unproductive Concepts*

Today we see a backlash of PC commentary regarding one's self image, which is largely misguided. Is it regretable that so many
individuals are made to feel anxious, or even depressed and shameful at the sight of their own bodies? Absolutely. Yet it is wholly
unproductive to simply tell these individuals that they are perfect; that they merely need accept themselves as they are and love
themselves and their appearance whole-heartedly and ignore unapproving looks or comments. It is certainly valuable for an individual
to gain the self-confidence to be completely undeterred or guided by the masses' superficial opinions. But in pushing this agenda
the whole issue frames the individual as some sort of victim of circumstances- *it's societies standards which are erronous, not your 
actions*. Again, there is some truth to this, as society's concept of what constitutes a healthy individual or why one need be healthy
in the first place is terribly misinformed and shallow. For much of society, an aesthetic physique is all one 
might hope to achieve by working out. For this reason countless will foolishly chase unrealistic and misguided goals while others will
shun the practice altogether as inconsequential and meaningless. 

We must focus in on the unmistakable benefits an individual receives by being active and healthy, the meaningful results instead of the 
superflous. It is worth mentioning that possible the single best way to boost one's self-confidence and view of their image is to 
exercise in the first place, this brings about a more deeply rooted and deserved grounding because one must act and be disciplines
in order ot attain results. From here one acts from the basis of truth, rather than boosting the ego through unmerrited and groundless
self-congratulatory flattery. To be sure, one should not be motivated by the opinions of others, for that is to entirely miss the point.
Instead, one must be introspective and find a deeper reason, a deeper truth to their condition and the barriers to their growth. If upon
reflection we discover that we are undisciplines, distracted, fallacious in our excuses, then we have a firmer grasp on reality and 
thereby a deeper reason to act. Once one has acted, and ultimately achieved milestones, it is similarly not needed for them to flaunt their 
results or progress on others; a common attitude one sees in our society but is, again, ultimately misuided. The whole reason for the 
action in the first place was a greater fulfillment of a deeper purpose, irrespective of others' opinions. When truth is your motivation,
your success and rewards are irrespective of others' opinions. 
